The metadata of SPs MUST contain at least one signing certificate with
the ``use`` attribute set to ``signing`` and at least one encryption certificate
with the ``use`` attribute set to ``encryption``.

SP metadata MAY include an `<md:Extensions>` element containing an
`<mdui:UIInfo>` extension element, but it MUST NOT include an
`<mdattr:EntityAttributes>` extension element.

The ``<md:SPSSODescriptor>`` element of an SP's metadata MUST also include an
``AuthnRequestsSigned`` attribute set to ``true`` or ``1`` and a
``WantAssertionsSigned`` attribute set to ``true`` or ``1``.

An SP's metadata SHOULD include two `<md:SingleLogoutService>` elements, one
with the `Binding` attribute value of
`urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:HTTP-Redirect`, the other with the
`Binding` attribute value of `urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:bindings:SOAP`.

The `<md:SPSSODescriptor>` element of SP metadata MAY contain 0, 2 or more
`<md:AttributeConsumingService>` elements that specify collections of attributes
required or desired by the service provider. Each `<md:AttributeConsumingService>`
MUST include two `<md:ServiceName>` elements, one in english and one in french.
`<md:ServiceDescription>`, if present, MUST also be included for both english
and french.

If an SP metadata includes any `<md:AttributeConsumingService>` elements,
exactly one of them must have the `isDefault` attribute set to `true` or `1`.
This default `<md:AttributeConsumingService>` must contain exactly one
`<md:RequestedAttribute>` element that specifies a "null" attribute as follows:

....
<RequestedAttribute NameFormat="urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:uri"
                    Name="data:,null" FriendlyName="null" isRequired="false"/>
....

_This provides a mechanism to prevent unecessary disclosure of personal
information, whereby the IDP will not return any attributes unless explicitly
requested by the SP using the `AttributeConsumingServiceIndex` attribute of
the `<samlp:AuthnRequest>`._