== Introduction

SAML V2.0 is a rich and extensible standard that must be profiled to be used
interoperably, and the profiles that typically emerge from the broader
standardization process usually remain fairly broad and include a number of
options and features that increase the burden for implementers and make
deployment-time decisions more difficult.

Implementation profiles define the features that software implementations must
support such that deployers can be assured of the ability to meet their own
(possibly varied) deployment requirements. Deployment profiles define specific
options and constraints to which deployments are required to conform; they guide
product configuration and federation operations, and provide criteria against
which actual deployments may be tested. This document provides a
deployment profile for use by members of the the Government of Canada....


=== Overview of the CATS SAML 2.0 Deployment Profile

This deployment profile is based on the draft SAML V2.0 Interoperability
Deployment Profile V1.0 <<SAML2Iop>> published by the Kantara Initiative, which
in turn is based on the SAML 2.0 specifications created by the Security Services
Technical Committee (SSTC) of the Organization for the Advancement of Structured
Information Standards (OASIS). 

.CATS SAML Profile Building Blocks
image::BuildingBlocks.png[]

=== Compliance to the CATS SAML 2.0 Deployment Profile

The requirements specified are in addition to all normative requirements of the
underlying Web Browser SSO and Single Logout profiles <<SAML2Prof>>, as modified
by the Approved Errata <<SAML2Err>>, and readers are assumed to be familiar with
all relevant reference documents. Any such requirements are not repeated here
except where deemed necessary to highlight a point of discussion or draw
attention to an issue addressed in errata, but remain implied.

The normative requirements of this CATS Deployment Profile in terms of the
applicable sections of the Kantara Profile are detailed in Sections 3 through 6
of this document.

